Skip to main content

Menu

ComputingAIMobileGamingEntertainmentAudio / VideoAutosDownloadsYouTube

Search

ComputingComputing See All Computing

Trending Topics Laptops Software PC Gaming Graphics Cards

Trending Guides ChatGPT What is a Chromebook? How to Choose a Laptop Windows 11 vs Windows 10 Download YouTube Videos

AI

MobileMobile See All Mobile

Trending Topics 5G Phone Apps iPhone Android Wearables

Trending Guides What is 5G? How to Unlock a Phone How to Stop Spam Calls Best Stock-Trading Apps How to Use WhatsApp Web

GamingGaming See All Gaming

Trending Topics Xbox PlayStation PC Gaming Cloud Gaming Nintendo Switch

Trending Guides Wordle Today Xbox Series X vs PS5 Upcoming PS5 Games All Cross-Platform Games Upcoming Switch Games

EntertainmentEntertainment See All Entertainment

Trending Topics Sci-Fi Action Marvel Fantasy DC Comics

Trending Guides Best New Movies Best New Shows Best Shows on Netflix Best Movies on Netflix Best Shows on Disney Plus

‎What to Watch Best Movies on Disney Plus Best Shows on Amazon Prime Best Movies on Amazon Prime Most Popular Movies on Netflix See All Streaming Guides

Audio / VideoAudio / Video See All Audio / Video

Trending Topics TVs Speakers Soundbars Headphones Streaming Services

Trending Guides FuboTV Sling TV YouTube TV QLED vs OLED What is Sonos?

Smart HomeSmart Home See All Smart Home

Trending Topics Google Nest Amazon Alexa Home Security Video Doorbell Robot Vacuums

Browse by Type Smart Home News Smart Home Guides Smart Home Features Smart Home Reviews Smart Home Deals

AutosAutos See All Autos

Trending Reviews Toyota Prius Prime Review Lexus RZ 450e Review Mercedes EQE AMG SUV Review BMW XM Review Hyundai Ioniq 6 Review

Trending Guides NACS charging EV tax credits Best Level 2 EV chargers Rivian R2 SUV Volvo EX90 SUV

Browse by Type Car News Car Guides Car Features Car Reviews Car Deals

Best ProductsBest Products See All Best Products

Best Computing Products Best Laptops Best Chromebooks Best Graphics Cards Best Gaming Laptops Best Desktop Computer

Best Mobile Products Best Phones Best Tablets Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Trackers Best Smart Notebooks

Best Audio / Video Products Best TVs Best Speakers Best Projectors Best Soundbars Best Headphones

Best Video Games Best Mac Games Best PS5 Games Best Games on PS Plus Best Xbox Series X Games Best Nintendo Switch Games

DealsDeals See All Deals

Computing Best Laptop Deals Best MacBook Deals Best Gaming PC Deals Best Chromebook Deals Best Gaming Laptop Deals

Gaming Best PS5 Deals Best Lego Deals Best Xbox Series S Deals Best Xbox Series X Deals Best Nintendo Switch Deals

Mobile Best iPad Deals Best Tablet Deals Best Google Pixel Deals Best Apple Watch Deals

Home Theater Best TV Deals Best Sony TV Deals Best 75-inch TV Deals Best Headphone Deals

Smart Home Best Dyson Deals Best Amazon Echo Deals Best Cordless Vacuum Deals

Retailers Best Walmart Deals Best Alienware Deals

Trending Best Camera Deals Best Prime Day Deals

ReviewsReviews See All Reviews

Computing Reviews Mac Reviews Printer Reviews Laptop Reviews Monitor Reviews Desktop Reviews

Mobile Reviews Phone Reviews Tablet Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews iPhone and iPad Reviews

Audio / Video Reviews TV Reviews Speaker Reviews Soundbar Reviews Headphone Reviews Media Streamer Reviews

More Reviews Game Reviews Movie and TV Show Reviews Smart Home Reviews Power Station Reviews eBike Reviews

News

DownloadsDownloads See All Downloads Download Mobile Legends Bang for Android Download Google Play Store for Android Download KMSpico for Windows Download Roblox for Android Download WhatsApp Business for Android Download Chrome for Windows Download 1.1.1.1 w/ WARP for Windows Download Solo Leveling: Arise for Android Download Homeworld 3 for Windows Download The Rogue Prince of Persiafor for Windows

MoreMore

Brands Dell Apple Google Samsung Microsoft

Buying Guides Best Kindle Best Bluetooth Trackers Best Portable Power Stations Best Live TV Streaming Services

Original Series You Asked ReSpec OuttaFocus Tech for Change Genius Home See All Original Series

More Topics Space Outdoors Portable Power Stations Versus Business See All Topics

YouTube

Trending: iOS 18 PS6 Apple M4 iPhone 16 GTA 6 AirPods 4 The Sims 5 Windows 12 Meta Quest 4 Google Pixel 9 Apple Vision Pro 2 Nintendo Switch 2 Samsung Galaxy Ring Yellowstone Season 6 Recall an Email in Outlook Stranger Things Season 5

Home

Mobile

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: Is one better than the other?

By

Bryan M. Wolfe

September 17, 2024 10:00AM

Bryan M. Wolfe / Digital Trends

Apple recently announced the Apple iPhone 16, nine months after Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S24 series. While being similar in a lot of ways, not the least of which is their status as the cheapest option in their respective flagship ranges, the iPhone 16 and Samsung Galaxy S24 have different operating systems. But how do these two phones compare in other aspects? Is one better than the other? Is one the superior choice for your preferences? Let’s compare the two phones and find out which one might be better suited for you.

Recommended Videos

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: specs

Apple iPhone 16 Samsung Galaxy S24

Dimensions and weight 5.81 x 2.82 x 0.31 inches 6.0 ounces

5.79 x 2.78 x 0.30 inches 5.93 ounces

Display 6.1-inch Super Retina XDR display 1179 x 2556 resolution (460 PPI) 60Hz refresh rate 2,000 nits peak brightness 1 nit minimum brightness

6.2-inch FHD+ 1080 x 2340 resolution (416 PPI) 120Hz refresh rate 2,600 nits peak brightness 1 nit minimum brightness

Processor A18 chip Six-core CPU Five-core GPU 16-core Neural Engine

Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 for Galaxy Eight-core CPU Number of GPUs not announced by Qualcomm Hexagon Processor

Rear cameras Dual camera system 48-megapixel Fusion main 12MP ultrawide

Triple camera system 50MP main 12MP ultrawide 10MP telephoto

Front cameras 12MP selfie 12MP selfie

Storage and memory 8GB/128GB 8GB/256GB 8GB/512GB

8GB/128GB 8GB/256GB

AI Apple Intelligence (coming soon) Galaxy AI

Durability IP68 IP68

Software and support iOS 18 Six to eight years of software updates

Android 15 Seven years of software updates

Battery and charging Up to 22 hours between charges Unknown battery size 45W wired 30W wireless 4.5W reverse wireless

Up to 24 hours between charges 4,000mAh 25W wired 15W wireless 4.5W reverse wireless

Colors Ultramarine Teal Pink White Black  

Cobalt VioletAmber Yellow Marble Gray Onyx Black Jade Green (Samsung exclusive) Sapphire Blue (Samsung exclusive) Sandstone Orange (Samsung exclusive)

Price Starting at $800 Starting at $800

Review To be reviewed 4 out of 5 stars

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: design and display Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends At first glance, at least on the front, there isn’t much difference between the Samsung Galaxy S24 and the Apple iPhone 16. Both have rounded edges and similar aluminum bodies. The Galaxy S24’s display is a tad larger at 6.2 inches compared to the iPhone 16’s 6.1 inches, and you’ll notice two new buttons on the Apple phone (more on that below). When turned on, the displays reveal more distinctions. Samsung’s phone offers a higher refresh rate and peak brightness, while the Apple device provides a sharper resolution. Both phones have the same minimum brightness, just 1 nit, which is fantastic in lowlight conditions. The Galaxy S24 is protected by Gorilla Glass Victus 2 on both the front and back, while the iPhone 16 features a Ceramic Shield front and a color-infused glass back. Both phones offer IP68 protection, making them dustproof and water-resistant up to 6 meters for 30 minutes. The most important point that stands out regarding the displays is the refresh rate for each handset. In 2024, it’s embarrassing that the iPhone 16 (and iPhone 16 Plus), like previous models, is stuck at 60Hz, versus the 120Hz on the iPhone 16 Pro and Galaxy S24 series. A higher refresh rate provides a smartphone experience that is more visually pleasing, responsive, and comfortable, which is most noticeable during gaming. The Galaxy S24 features three familiar buttons: a side key and two for volume. The side key turns the screen on and off or locks the device, while the volume buttons allow you to control media, calls, and notifications. The iPhone 16 also includes a side button for on or off functionality and volume up and down buttons. New to this model is a Camera Control button, which offers enhanced control of the phone’s Camera app during photo or video capture. This includes access to features such as zoom, focus, and exposure. The iPhone 16 also now has the Action button, a versatile and customizable feature first seen in the iPhone 15 Pro series. This button can be programmed to execute various simple and complex actions, enhancing the phone’s functionality and personalizing it to suit individual preferences. Design is always a tough category to call, because so much of it is personal. The Camera Control button seems like a game-changer, but the 60Hz refresh rate really does hold the iPhone back. We’re giving this to the iPhone for now, largely because 60Hz on an iPhone doesn’t generally feel slow. Winner: Apple iPhone 16

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: performance and software Digital Trends The iPhone 16 is new, so its A18 chip has not yet been extensively tested. Apple claims this chip provides 30% faster CPU performance and 40% faster GPU performance than the iPhone 15. We’ll have to wait for the performance tests for more solid evidence. The Galaxy S24 is equipped with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 for Galaxy, an optimized version of the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 that is explicitly designed for Samsung devices to deliver improved performance and efficiency. Our tests found the Galaxy S24 to be fast and capable of handling everyday tasks without lag or stuttering. However, when taking many photos quickly, the phone became warm, although it never got too hot to hold. The iPhone 16 comes with iOS 18, and the Galaxy S24 with Android 14. Whichever one of these you prefer will likely come down to personal experience at this stage. But if you don’t have a preference between the two, don’t worry. While they still have their differences, iOS and Android are generally quite similar these days, and it won’t take you long to find your footing when switching from one to the other. Apple usually offers iPhone users six to eight years of iOS updates, while Samsung has confirmed that Galaxy S24 users will receive seven years of Android updates. It’s a tough category to call. The Apple phone will likely have an edge in pure power, but whether that will mean a smoother experience remains to be seen. Apple’s update record is proven to be strong though, while we’re still yet to see whether Samsung manages all seven years or not. Winner: Apple iPhone 16

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: cameras Apple We haven’t had a chance to test the cameras on the iPhone 16 yet, but we can compare their specs with the ones on the Galaxy S24. First, it’s important to note that the Galaxy S24 has a triple rear camera system, while the iPhone 16 offers a dual camera system. The former offers a 50-megapixel main, 12MP ultrawide, and 10MP telephoto, while the latter provides a 48MP Fusion main and 12MP ultrawide. On the front, both have a 12MP selfie camera. Our Galaxy S24 camera system test mainly yielded positive results. In the past, Samsung devices have been known for producing oversaturated colors in photos. However, thanks to improved algorithms governing color representation, the images now tend to be truer to life. Overall, images were much better when there was no movement when taking a shot. Otherwise, it can mean a blurry image. Close-up shots taken with the Galaxy S24 were good, and the selfie camera was “just”decent. We cannot determine how well the camera system will perform for the iPhone 16 at this stage, but we are optimistic. Apple claims the new 48MP Fusion primary camera will produce stunning super-high-resolution images or provide 2x optical-quality telephoto zoom. Spatial Capture is another new feature that brings more depth to photos. In our upcoming tests of the entire iPhone 16 series, we won’t just look at how well the devices take photos and videos. We’ll also see how well the Camera Capture button performs. This physical button provides an easier way to quickly access the phone’s tools. For example, you can slide your finger to adjust camera functions such as exposure or depth of field, toggle through each lens, or use digital zoom to frame your shot. Assuming Camera Capture meets its expectations, it will become a big deal and quickly differentiate the iPhone 16 series from other phones including the Galaxy S24 series. But for now, it’s a tie. This all comes down to our review testing. Winner: Tie

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: battery and charging Christine Romero-Chan / Digital Trends The Samsung Galaxy S24 has a 4,000mAh battery that’s intended to last a full day with regular use, however, we could go more than a day on a single charge. On a down note, the basic Galaxy S24 model only supports charging speeds of up to 25 watts, unlike its larger counterparts, the Galaxy S24 Plus and Galaxy S24 Ultra, which support 45W charging. On the wireless front, the Samsung phone does not support the new Qi2 wireless charging standard. Wireless charging is still possible, but is limited to 15W, which may be a little slow. The phone also features reverse wireless charging, with a speed of up to 4.5W. The size of the battery in the iPhone 16 is not yet known, but Apple says it should last up to 22 hours between charges when streaming video. The new A18 is also expected to provide more efficient operation. The iPhone 16 series is expected to support 45W wired charging, an excellent step up from last year’s phones — but this may only be on certain models. The newer phone also supports MagSafe, Qi2, and Qi wireless charging. With MagSafe, you can wirelessly charge at up to 25W with a 30W adapter or higher, up to 15W with Qi2, and 7.5W with Qi. It also provides 4.5W reverse wireless charging, just like last year. The Samsung Galaxy S24 has a solid battery, but disappointing charging. However, there’s too much currently unknown about the new iPhone’s battery performance and charging ability to really judge this just yet. This is a tie. Winner: Tie

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: AI Nadeem Sarwar / Digital Trends When history is written, this year’s smartphones will be remembered for being among the first to really embrace artificial intelligence. The Galaxy S24 includes Galaxy AI, while the iPhone will eventually include Apple Intelligence. When discussing either of these products, it’s important to note they are both works in progress, especially in the case of Apple Intelligence, which has not yet been released. Galaxy AI brings a range of advanced AI capabilities directly to Galaxy smartphones and tablets. It aims to provide intelligent and personalized experiences while enhancing the functionality of various features. These include an enhanced user experience, improved functionality, privacy and security, and offline accessibility. Apple Intelligence, which the company revealed at the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June, will eventually be found on every Apple product. It’s a suite of AI features designed to enhance productivity, creativity, and the overall user experience. It combines on-device and server-side processing to deliver powerful AI capabilities while prioritizing user privacy. Apple Intelligence features will initially fall under three broad categories: photo and video editing, writing, and contextural suggestions/automation. The iPhone 16 series comes with iOS 18, which does not include Apple Intelligence. You will have to wait for iOS 18.1 and iOS 18.2 to be released later this year to access it. However, not all Apple Intelligence components will be available on the iPhone 16 series even after these updates arrive, as full releases might extend into 2025. As an iPhone 16 buyer, you are promised to be among the first to experience the new tools, but since it’s not ready yet, this has to go to the Samsung phone. Winner: Samsung Galaxy S24

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: price and availability The starting price for each phone is $799, which includes 128GB of storage. For $859, you can get the Galaxy S24 with 256GB. The 256GB iPhone 16 model from Apple is priced at $899. Unlike Samsung, Apple offers a 512GB storage option for $1.099. Availability is strong for both of these phones, as they’re some of the most popular phones on the planet. Walk into anyplace that sells phones and you’re going to be able to find these. Well, once the iPhone is available anyway. While the Galaxy S24 is currently available, the iPhone 16 is currently only available for preorder. It will release on September 20 though, so you don’t have long to wait.

Apple iPhone 16 vs. Samsung Galaxy S24: verdict Joe Maring / Digital Trends So, which phone should you select, the Galaxy S24 or iPhone 16? The simple answer for many users might be whether you’re in the Android or iOS camp. If you are in one or the other, choose accordingly. However, if you’re looking for a phone with the best hardware and features right now, the choice is less clear. The Galaxy S24 features a larger and slightly better display than the iPhone 16. Although third-party testing on Apple phones might say otherwise, it also seems to have a more enhanced camera system. From a chip perspective, the Apple A18 is expected to outlast the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 for Galaxy, if only because the A18 is newer and more advanced. Finally, when it comes to price, the Galaxy S24, being slightly older, is probably available at slightly lower price points (with discounts) than the iPhone 16. However, they are available at the same price points on paper, although only the iPhone has access to 512GB of storage. Again, without testing the iPhone 16, we cannot be sure whether one phone is better overall. However, historically, it can be argued that new iPhones released in the fall are better than the Galaxy S model released at the beginning of the same year. That said, it’s also easy to conclude that the upcoming Galaxy S25, which should arrive in January or February, will be better than the iPhone 16.

Editors’ Recommendations

The best Apple iPhone 16 Plus screen protectors for 2024

Here’s how the Galaxy S25 Ultra may beat the iPhone 16 Pro Max’s display

The first iPhone 16 reviews are out. Here’s what people are saying

The 10 accessories you need for your Samsung Galaxy S24

The best iPhone 15 cases in 2024: our 20 favorites

Topics

Apple

Apple iPhone

Samsung

Samsung Galaxy Unpacked 2024

Versus

Bryan M. Wolfe

linkedin

twitter

Email

Bryan M. Wolfe has over a decade of experience as a technology writer. He writes about mobile.

Mobile

Apple iPhone 16 vs. iPhone 16 Pro: Do you need a Pro?

Apple finally unveiled the new iPhone 16 series and it turns out that teh company has revamped the key experience offered by the non-Pro Apple iPhone 16 and 16 Plus. While the Pro series has traditionally been significantly better than the non-Pro, this year the iPhone 16 and iPhone 16 Pro are more closely aligned. With both having the latest generation of processors, as well as very similar camera experiences and even the same Action Button and Camera Control buttons, there are fewer differences separating these two devices. It makes the decision on which to buy much harder.

Read more

Mobile

The iPhone 16 Pro fixes my biggest issue with the iPhone 15 Pro

The iPhone 16 Pro fixes one of my biggest annoyances with the iPhone 15 Pro. Both Pro models this year now feature the same camera setup. This is a different approach from last year when Apple decided to limit the new 5x optical zoom-capable telephoto sensor to the iPhone 15 Pro Max. The smaller iPhone 15 Pro retained the older 12MP telephoto camera with 3x optical zoom. I’ve been using it since its launch last year, and I couldn’t be happier with the upgrade to the new 5x zoom sensor. Here's why. Telephoto woes no more

Read more

Mobile

Does the Apple iPhone 16 have MagSafe?

MagSafe has been part of Apple's iPhone line since the release of the iPhone 12 in 2020, giving users the ability to charge their phones wirelessly and quickly. Now that the Apple iPhone 16 has finally been revealed, questions about whether MagSafe is available on the new model and its more powerful siblings -- the iPhone 16 Plus, iPhone 16 Pro and iPhone 16 Pro Max -- are inevitable. Lucky for you, we put this helpful guide together to give you the answer regarding MagSafe compatibility for the iPhone 16. Let's dive in. Does the iPhone 16 have MagSafe?

Read more

Upgrade your lifestyleDigital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks.

Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn TikTok Flipboard

Mobile Computing Gaming Audio / Video Smart Home Entertainment Automotive Space Streaming Guides Original Shows Downloads How-To

About Us Contact Us Editorial Guidelines Logo & Accolade Licensing

Subscribe to our Newsletter Branded Content Digital Trends Wallpapers Digital Trends in Spanish

Portland New York Chicago Detroit Los Angeles Toronto

Careers

Advertise With Us

Work With Us

Diversity & Inclusion

Terms of Use

Privacy Policy

Do Not Sell or Share My Information

Manage cookie preferences

Press Room

Sitemap

Digital Trends Media Group may earn a commission when you buy through links on our sites. ©2024 Digital Trends Media Group, a Designtechnica Company. All rights reserved.
