Skip to Main Content

View on Facebook Page (Opens in a new tab)

View our Twitter Page (Opens in a new tab)

View our Instagram Page (Opens in a new tab)

View our Youtube Page (Opens in a new tab)

$refs.firstMenuItem.focus());">

Latest Tech Food Entertainment Health Money Home & Garden Relationships Deals Hacks

Search Result

Latest Tech Food Entertainment Health Money Home & Garden Relationships Deals Hacks

Home

Tech

Apple

Copied

How the iPhone 16 Compares to the Pixel 9 and Galaxy S24 Here's how Apple's latest stacks up to its biggest competition.

Michelle Ehrhardt

September 9, 2024

Credit: Michelle Ehrhardt, Apple, Samsung

Apple unveiled a swath of new hardware today, including the iPhone 16, the AirPods 4, and the Apple Watch Series 10. We’ve already got you covered when it comes to the new Apple Watch and the latest AirPods, but now it’s time to tackle the company's new phones. The iPhone 16 is Apple’s first AI-centric phone, but for everyone who hasn’t bought into big tech's latest trend, there’s still plenty to talk about, including a surprising return to buttons. In an increasingly same-y phone landscape, the iPhone 16 is looking to do something a little different. Here’s how it stacks up to its biggest competition: Google’s Pixel 9 and Samsung’s Galaxy S24. What’s new with the iPhone 16? Apple is really pushing Apple Intelligence, its first foray into AI, hard with the iPhone 16. Today’s event didn’t say much we hadn’t heard before, but the shadow of AI loomed over the whole presentation. I’ll get to that in a second, but first, the phone you’ll be using Apple Intelligence on. Like past models, the iPhone 16 comes in four versions, with two sizes for the base option and two sizes for the upgraded pro version. Unlike past models, Apple is making the "candy bar" rectangular design that's become synonymous with smartphones in general a little fun again. Lately, Apple’s been moving towards fewer buttons, adopting a highly generalized design that kept the iPhone from sticking out across the competition. There were even rumors Apple would ditch buttons entirely. This year, Apple decided to go all-in on the tactile, gadget-y feel that can only come with a physical press. All iPhone 16s are getting the customizable Action Button that was exclusive to the iPhone 15’s pro models, but there’s also now a new Camera Control button. This works a bit like a DSLR shutter, and will allow you to press it with varying levels of pressure to either take a photo or adjust things like zoom, exposure, and focus. You can even slide your finger across the button for even greater control. As someone who bought the iPhone 15 Pro partially so I could use the Action Button to activate the camera, I’m all-in. More physical controls on my phone, please. Aside from that, there’s the typical upgrades to camera and battery, but interestingly, all iPhone 16s are getting some version of the new A18 chip. That means people who get the base model won’t be stuck with last year’s pro chip, which used to be how Apple’s base models worked. It also means all iPhone 16s will get Apple Intelligence and will be able to play graphic-intensive games, like Death Stranding. The iPhone 16 Pro will still get a better version of the chip—the A18 Pro over the A18—but all models of this new CPU are supposed to be stronger than anything Apple’s released so far. For those Pro models, there’s also now bigger screens, too, although Apple has kept the bezels thin to stop the device itself from getting bigger. Now, the iPhone 16 Pro has a 6.3-inch screen and the Pro Max has a 6.9-inch screen. As for that promised Apple Intelligence, it’s supposed to hit the public next month, coming first in U.S. English. During its event, Apple also announced Visual Intelligence, a way to get AI help by holding the new Camera Control button.  Whether all these changes will make the phone feel like a proper upgrade will still need to wait for a full review, but it’s certainly a more expansive overhaul than just upping the processor and camera specs. The iPhone 16 starts at $799 for the base model and $899 for the Plus version, while the iPhone 16 Pro starts at $999 and the iPhone 16 Pro Max starts at $1,199. iPhone 16 vs Pixel 9 While Apple’s newest phone is looking for ways to enhance the classic “candy bar” rectangle format, the Pixel 9 instead did something Apple fans are still waiting for: It brought a foldable to the table. The Pixel 9 line wasn’t the first time we got a Google foldable, but with the introduction of the Pixel 9 Pro Fold, Google definitely embraced the idea, no longer spinning it off into a sub-brand. When getting Google’s latest phone, you can now choose either a Pixel 9, a Pixel 9 Pro, or a folding version of that 9 Pro. There are different sizes for each of the non-folding models, sure, but folding is a far more interesting design tweak than a shutter button (even if a shutter button is still fun). I’m not sure it’s worth it—folding phones are still far more expensive, and you sacrifice some camera capability going for one here—but it makes the Pixel 9 a more interesting option for people who don’t think slightly better specs are enough of a reason to upgrade. The Pixel 9 still has those too, of course, plus some more of the exclusive software features Google is known for. This year introduced “Add me,” which can make group shots easier to take, and Pixel Studio, which is essentially an AI image generator. There’s also reimagine, which lets you use AI to edit existing photos, although that’s kicked up a bit of a controversy following an investigation by The Verge. Right now, the key reasons to get a Pixel are either that option for a foldable, or those exclusive features, although it’s possible Apple Intelligence will make the latter seem a bit less compelling. That’s a bit of a shame for Google, because with the base Pixel 9 starting at $799 and the Pixel 9 Pro starting at $999, there’s no price incentive to go with its phone instead. iPhone 16 vs Samsung Galaxy S24 The Samsung Galaxy line has long been Android’s answer to the iPhone. Where Google’s Pixel often focuses more on standing out with unique designs and clever software, Samsung’s flagship offers a classy but more traditional design, and focuses on industry-leading cameras. (That said, the company does have its own foldable sub-brand in the Galaxy Z series.) That’s still the case here: The Galaxy S24 Ultra packs a 200 megapixel main lens that blows the 48 megapixel lens on the iPhone 16 Pro out of the water. Even the base Samsung Galaxy S24 has a stronger main camera than the standard iPhone 16, at 50 MP vs 48 MP. There’s also the S Pen that comes built into the Galaxy S24 Ultra, which gives you some tactile note-taking capabilities that are hard to replicate on an iPhone, even with a third-party stylus (those usually just mimic a finger). AI on the Galaxy S24 is weaker than what Apple Intelligence looks to be offering, borrowing most of its smarts from Google, although features like sketch-to-image make use of the phone’s unique capabilities well.  Not everyone cares about AI, though, and if you also don’t care about the iOS ecosystem, it’s arguable that the Galaxy S24 feels like the most premium option on this list. That might just be because I like the square corners (as opposed to rounded) and the camera lenses not being segregated into their own little box. It’s certainly a subjective judgment, but I’d say that Apple might not be the luxury king here. That reflects in pricing, too. While the base Galaxy S24 is on par with the iPhone 16's $799 MSRP, the Galaxy S24 Ultra starts at $1,299, so it’s a bit more expensive than Apple’s premium option. It’s a strong competitor for Apple, but one note of warning: having released in January, the S24 line is also due for a refresh soon, so it’s probably smart to wait before buying one. Still, this also means you could get a price cut by going for a retailer that's not Samsung itself.

Latest

See More

Connections

Today's NYT Connections Hints (and Answer) for Thursday, September 19, 2024

September 19, 2024

Travel

You Can Now Renew Your US Passport Online

September 18, 2024

Apple

Refurbished AirPods Max Are $340 Right Now

September 18, 2024

Michelle Ehrhardt Associate Tech Editor

Michelle Ehrhardt is Lifehacker's Associate Tech Editor. She has been writing about tech and pop culture since 2014 and has edited for outlets including Gizmodo and Tom's Hardware.

Read Michelle's full bio

More by Michelle

AI

AI Junk Is Coming for Your YouTube Feed

September 18, 2024

Mobile Apps

Instagram Is Moving All Teens Into More Restrictive Accounts

September 17, 2024

Related Articles

September 11, 2024

 

My Favorite Amazon Deal of the Day: The Google Pixel 8 Pro (With a Free Pixel Watch)

July 26, 2024

 

The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 Is $100 Off Right Now

July 24, 2024

 

The Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra Is Already Over $300 Off

June 22, 2024

 

The Pixel 7 Pro and Pixel 8 Pro Are on Sale for Their Lowest Prices Ever

Lifehacker has been a go-to source of tech help and life advice since 2005. Our mission is to offer reliable tech help and credible, practical, science-based life advice to help you live better.

Our Mission Our Team Newsletter

Latest Tech Food Entertainment Health Money Home & Garden Relationships Deals Hacks

About Ziff Davis (Opens in a new tab)

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Advertise

Accessibility

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

© 2001-2024 Ziff Davis, LLC., A ZIFF DAVIS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Lifehacker is a federally registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of Lifehacker. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant.

AdChoices Image

AdChoices

Better Business Bureau (BBB) Logo

TRUSTe Logo

Ziffmedia Logo

Askmen Logo

ExtremeTech Logo

IGN Logo

Mashable Logo

Offers Logo

PCMag Logo

RetailMeNot Logo

Speedtest Logo
